webgen - static website generation made easy

Copyright (C) 2012 Thomas Leitner

= IMPORTANT NOTE

This branch will become the *next major version* of webgen. The latest
commit should always be in a good state but you cannot depend on this!

This branch features a completely rewritten webgen core (as have all
past major releases) which will simplify writing extensions for webgen
(and therefore webgen itself since most functionality is implemented via
extensions).

Nearly all of the functionality of the 0.5.x series is already available
in this branch, so compiling a basic website already works. The missing
features from the 0.5.x series will be ported in the coming
weeks/months. After that some features of the 0.4.x series will be
ported to this new version.

Have a look at the code (or the rdoc of it) to get familiar with the API
if you have written extensions for previous webgen versions - it is not
that different from the 0.5.x API. You can also ask questions or request
features on the <webgen-users@rubyforge.org> mailing list.

Also note that the branch history may be rewritten from time to time!


= Description

webgen is a free (GPL-licensed) command line application for generating
static websites. It combines content with template files to generate
HTML files. This allows one to separate the content from the layout and
reuse the layout for many content files.

Apart from this basic functionality, webgen offers many features that
makes authoring websites easier:

* Multiple markup languages to choose from (Markdown, Textile, Haml,
  Asciidoc, ...)

* Automatic generation of menus, breadcrumb trails, ... and more!

* Partial website generation (only modified items get re-generated)

* Self-contained website (all generated links are relative, so one can
  view the website without a web server)

* Easily extendable (all major components can be extended with new
  functionality)


= Documentation

The documentation can be found in the doc/ directory. Furthermore, the
webgen CLI command provides options for viewing the documentation for all
available extensions.

An HTML rendering of the documentation is available at
http://webgen.rubyforge.org/documentation/.


= Installation

webgen is written in Ruby, so you need the Ruby interpreter on your
system. You can get it from http://ruby-lang.org/.

Once Ruby is installed, you just need to enter the following commands on
the command line:

    $ ruby setup.rb config
    $ ruby setup.rb setup
    $ ruby setup.rb install

Or you could install webgen via Rubygems:

    $ gem install webgen


= Contact

Author: Thomas Leitner <t_leitner@gmx.at>
